Henry V, Act V, Scene III [What's he that wishes so?]
William Shakespeare - 1564-1616

King Henry to Westmoreland

What's he that wishes so?
My cousin Westmoreland? No my fair cousin:
If we are mark'd to die, we are enow
To do our country loss; and if to live,
The fewer men, the greater share of honor.
God's will! I pray thee, wish not one man more.
By Jove, I am not covetous for gold,
Nor care I who doth feed upon my cost;
It yearns me not if men my garments wear;
Such outward things dwell not in my desires:
But if it be a sin to covet honor,
I am the most offending soul alive.
No, faith, my coz, wish not a man from England:
God's peace! I would not lose so great an honor
As one man more, methinks, would share from me
For the best hope I have. O, do not wish one more!
Rather proclaim it, Westmoreland, through my host,
That he which hath no stomach to this fight,
Let him depart; his passport shall be made
And crowns for convoy put into his purse:
We would not die in that man's company
That fears his fellowship to die with us.
This day is called the feast of Crispian:
He that outlives this day, and comes safe home
Will stand a tip-toe when the day is named,
And rouse him at the name of Crispian.
He that shall live this day, and see old age,
Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbors,
And say 'To-morrow is Saint Crispian:'
Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars.
And say 'These wounds I had on Crispin's day.'
Old men forget: yet all shall be forgot,
But he'll remember with advantages
What feats he did that day: then shall our names,
Familiar in his mouth as household words
Harry the king, Bedford and Exeter,
Warwick and Talbot, Salisbury and Gloucester,
Be in their flowing cups freshly remember'd.
This story shall the good man teach his son;
And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by,
From this day to the ending of the world,
But we in it shall be remember'd;
We few, we happy few, we band of brothers;
For he to-day that sheds his blood with me
Shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile,
This day shall gentle his condition:
And gentlemen in England now a-bed
Shall think themselves accursed they were not here,
And hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaks
That fought with us upon Saint Crispin's day.

Poema desde un caracol

Yo he visto el mar. Pero no era
el mar retórico con mástiles
y marineros amarrados
a una leyenda de cantares.

Ni el verde mar cosmopolita
-mar de Babel- de las ciudades,
que nunca tuvo unas ventanas
para el lucero de la tarde.

Ni el mar de Ulises que tenía
siete sirenas musicales cual siete islas rodeadas
de música por todas partes.

Ni el mar inútil que regresa
con una carga de paisajes
para que siempre sea octubre
en el sueño de los alcatraces.

Ni el mar bohemio con un puerto
y un marinero delirante
que perdiera su corazón
en una partida de naipes.

Ni el mar que rompe contra el
[muelle
una canción irremediable
que llega al pecho de los días
sin emoción, como un tatuaje.

Ni el mar puntual que siempre tiene
un puerto para cada viaje
donde el amor se vuelve vida
como en el vientre de una madre.

Que era mi mar el mar eterno,
mar de la infancia, inolvidable,
suspendido de nuestro sueño
como una Paloma en el aire.

Era el mar de la geografía,
de los pequeños estudiantes,
que aprendíamos a navegar
en los mapas elementales.

En el mar de los caracoles,
mar prisionero, mar distante,
que llevábamos en el bolsillo
como un juguete a todas partes.

El mar azul que nos miraba,
cuando era nuestra edad tan frágil
que se doblaba bajo el
peso de los castillos en el aire.

Y era el mar del primer amor
en unos ojos otoñales.

Un día quise ver el mar
-mar de la infancia- y ya era tarde.

Español
Ulises ulises

Donaudampfschiffahrtsgesellschaftskapitän
